Updates for the security section (#168)
neo4j/docs-graphql: modules/ROOT/pages/security/configuration.adoc

= Configuration
:description: This page describes how to configure authentication and authorization features in the Neo4j GraphQL Library.

The Neo4j GraphQL Library uses JSON Web Token (JWT) authentication.
JWTs are tokens containing claims or statements about the user or client making the request.
These claims can include information such as the user's ID or roles.

> A JWT can be obtained from an authentication service and is then included in an API request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A JWT can be obtained from an authentication service and then be included in an API request.
```

The API verifies the JWT and returns the requested data if the JWT is valid.

== Instantiation

The Neo4j GraphQL Library can accept two types of JWTs:

* Encoded JWTs in the `token` field of the request context.
* Decoded JWTs in the `jwt` field of the request context.

=== Encoded JWTs

> To use encoded JWTs, the library can be configured with a key to decode and verify the tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to use encoded JWTs, the library needs to be configured with a key to decode and verify the tokens.
```

Author: slightly rephrased in separate comment

> To use encoded JWTs, the library can be configured with a key to decode and verify the tokens.

Author: ```suggestion
In order to use encoded JWTs, configure the library with a key to decode and verify the tokens.
```

> To use encoded JWTs, the library must to be configured with a key to decode and verify the tokens.

Reviewer 2: This isn't the case.

An encoded token also can be decoded via a JWKS endpoint.

Author: rephrased

> The following code block uses Apollo Server, extracts the `Authorization` header from the request and puts it in the appropriate context field:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code block uses Apollo Server. 
It extracts the `Authorization` header from the request and puts it in the appropriate context field:
```

= Configuration
:description: This page describes how to configure authentication and authorization features in the Neo4j GraphQL Library.

The Neo4j GraphQL Library uses JSON Web Token (JWT) authentication.
JWTs are tokens containing claims or statements about the user or client making the request.
These claims can include information such as the user's ID or roles.

When a user or client logs in to the API, the API generates a JWT and returns it to the client.
The client then includes the JWT with each subsequent request to the API.
The API verifies the JWT and returns the requested data if the JWT is valid.

> // ^ is this paragraph accurate?

Author: ^

Optionally, if a custom decoding mechanism is required, that same header can be decoded and the resulting JWT payload put into the `jwt` field of the context.

> // ^ Can we show the above in a code listing?

Author: ^

Reviewer 2: I think that this is essentially referring to the "Decoded JWTs" section

==== Symmetric secret

To configure the library with a symmetric secret (e.g. "secret"), the following instantiation is required:

> // ^ What is a symmetric secret? What is its purpose?

Author: ^

});
----

==== JWKS endpoint

To configure the library to verify tokens against a JWKS endpoint, for example "https://www.myapplication.com/.well-known/jwks.json", the following instantiation is required:

> // ^ What is the purpose?

Author: ^

[source, javascript, indent=0]
----
const server = new ApolloServer({
    schema,
});

await startStandaloneServer(server, {
    context: async ({ req }) => ({ token: req.headers.authorization }),
});
----

For example, a HTTP request with the following `authorization` header should look like this:

[source]
----
POST / HTTP/1.1
authorization: Bearer eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJzdWIiOiIxMjM0NTY3ODkwIiwibmFtZSI6IkpvaG4gRG9lIiwiaWF0IjoxNTE2MjM5MDIyLCJyb2xlcyI6WyJ1c2VyX2FkbWluIiwicG9zdF9hZG1pbiIsImdyb3VwX2FkbWluIl19.IY0LWqgHcjEtOsOw60mqKazhuRFKroSXFQkpCtWpgQI
content-type: application/json
----

Alternatively, you can pass a key `jwt` of type `JwtPayload` into the context, which has the following definition:

[source, typescript, indent=0]
----
// standard claims https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7519#section-4.1
interface JwtPayload {
    [key: string]: any;
    iss?: string | undefined;
    sub?: string | undefined;
    aud?: string | string[] | undefined;
    exp?: number | undefined;
    nbf?: number | undefined;
    iat?: number | undefined;
    jti?: string | undefined;
}
----

[WARNING]

> Do not pass in the header or the signature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
====
Do not pass in the header or the signature.
====
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

=== Decoded JWTs

A decoded JWT is passed to the context in a similar way that an encoded JWT is.
However, instead of using a token, it uses the `jwt` field:

[source, typescript, indent=0]
----
const jwt = customImplementation();

const { url } = await startStandaloneServer(server, {
    listen: { port: 4000 },
    context: async ({ req }) => ({
        jwt: jwt,
    }),
});
----

`customImplementation` is a placeholder for a function that provides a decoded JWT.

> Using `jwt` instead of `token` in the `context` informs the Neo4jGraphQL library that it doesn't need to decode it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using `jwt` instead of `token` in the `context` informs the Neo4j GraphQL Library that it doesn't need to decode it.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

});
----

==== Passing in encoded JWTs

> // This was at the end of the file, I thought it could be moved here instead. What about decoded JWTs?

Author: ^

[source, javascript, indent=0]
----
const server = new ApolloServer({
    schema,
});

await startStandaloneServer(server, {
    context: async ({ req }) => ({ token: req.headers.authorization }),
});
----

For example, a HTTP request with the following `authorization` header should look like this:

[source]
----
POST / HTTP/1.1
authorization: Bearer eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJzdWIiOiIxMjM0NTY3ODkwIiwibmFtZSI6IkpvaG4gRG9lIiwiaWF0IjoxNTE2MjM5MDIyLCJyb2xlcyI6WyJ1c2VyX2FkbWluIiwicG9zdF9hZG1pbiIsImdyb3VwX2FkbWluIl19.IY0LWqgHcjEtOsOw60mqKazhuRFKroSXFQkpCtWpgQI
content-type: application/json
----

Alternatively, you can pass a key `jwt` of type `JwtPayload` into the context, which has the following definition:

[source, typescript, indent=0]
----
// standard claims https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7519#section-4.1
interface JwtPayload {
    [key: string]: any;
    iss?: string | undefined;
    sub?: string | undefined;
    aud?: string | string[] | undefined;
    exp?: number | undefined;
    nbf?: number | undefined;
    iat?: number | undefined;
    jti?: string | undefined;
}
----

[WARNING]
Do not pass in the header or the signature.

=== Decoded JWTs

> // What could be added here?

Author: ^

Reviewer 2: A decoded JWT is passed in to the context in a similar way that an encoded JWT is, but instead of using `token`, we use `jwt`, like this where the value of the jwt is passed in by code. `customImplementation` should be thought of as a placeholder for whatever the programmer would actually write.

```ts
const jwt = customImplementation();

const { url } = await startStandaloneServer(server, {
    listen: { port: 4000 },
    context: async ({ req }) => ({
        jwt: jwt,
    }),
});
```

Using `jwt` instead of `token` in the context informs the Neo4jGraphQL library that it doesn't need to decode it.

Author: adapted, thanks

}
----

[NOTE]

> Note that the type name `JWT` is not required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
====
The type name `JWT` is not mandatory.
```

> You can use any name as long as it is decorated with the `@jwt` directive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use any name as long as it is decorated with the `@jwt` directive.
====
```

=== The `@jwtClaim` directive

> A `roles` claim is not necessarily located at the JWT payload root, but can instead be in a nested location, for example under `myApplication`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `roles` claim is not necessarily located at the JWT payload root.
It can instead be in a nested location, for example under `myApplication`:
```

}
----

> // ^ why is this a nested location? can we show the nesting?

Author: ^

Reviewer 2: nested in this case refers to a nested object in the JSON structure.

In this case `myApplication` is at the top-level, while `roles` is _nested_ under `myApplication`

```json
    "myApplication": {
        "roles": ["user", "admin"]
    }
```

}
----

> Escape these characters:

Reviewer: I think the way you rephrase it makes it sound like it's an option, but it may not be the case?

Author: True. Rephrasing

> Escape these characters:

Author: ```suggestion
These characters must be escaped:
```
